3.1.0 -- 2016-11-14
-------------------

You can view the `3.1.0 milestone`_ on GitLab for more details.

- Add ``--bug-report`` flag to make issue reporters' lives easier.

- Collect configuration files from the current directory when using our Git
  hook. (See also `GitLab#210`_, `GitLab#218`_, `GitLab#223`_)

- Avoid unhandled exceptions when dealing with SyntaxErrors. (See also
  `GitLab#214`_, `GitLab#238`_)

- Exit early if the value for ``--diff`` is empty. (See also `GitLab#226`_)

- Handle empty ``--stdin-display-name`` values. (See also `GitLab#235`_)

- Properly report the column number of Syntax Errors. We were assuming that
  all reports of column numbers were 0-indexed, however, SyntaxErrors report
  the column number as 1-indexed. This caused us to report a column number
  that was 1 past the actual position. Further, when combined with
  SyntaxErrors that occur at a newline, this caused the position to be
  visually off by two. (See also `GitLab#237`_)

- Fix the behaviour of ``--enable-extensions``. Previously, items specified
  here were still ignored due to the fact that the off-by-default extension
  codes were being left in the ``ignore`` list. (See also `GitLab#239`_)

- Fix problems around ``--select`` and ``--ignore`` behaviour that prevented
  codes that were neither explicitly selected nor explicitly ignored from
  being reported. (See also `GitLab#242`_)

- Truly be quiet when the user specifies ``-q`` one or more times. Previously,
  we were showing the if the user specified ``-q`` and ``--show-source``. We
  have fixed this bug. (See also `GitLab#245`_)

- Add new File Processor attribute, ``previous_unindented_logical_line`` to
  accommodate pycodestyle 2.1.0. (See also `GitLab#246`_)

- When something goes wrong, exit non-zero. (See also `GitLab#248`_,
  `GitLab#209`_)

- Add ``--tee`` as an option to allow use of ``--output-file`` and printing to
  standard out.

- Allow the git plugin to actually be lazy when collecting files.

- Allow for pycodestyle 2.1 series and pyflakes 1.3 series.

.. links
.. _3.1.0 milestone:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/milestones/12
.. _GitLab#209:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/209
.. _GitLab#210:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/210
.. _GitLab#214:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/214
.. _GitLab#218:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/218
.. _GitLab#223:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/223
.. _GitLab#226:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/226
.. _GitLab#235:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/235
.. _GitLab#237:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/237
.. _GitLab#238:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/238
.. _GitLab#239:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/239
.. _GitLab#242:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/242
.. _GitLab#245:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/245
.. _GitLab#246:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/246
.. _GitLab#248:
    https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8/issues/248
